One of the reasons the US wants to control the oil is because profits flow 
back, and they flow in a lot of ways. Its not just oil profits, it's also 
military sales. The biggest purchaser of US arms and probably British arms 
is either Saudi Arabia or United Arab Emirates, one of the rich oil 
producers. They take most of the arms and that's profits for hi- tech 
industry in the Unites States. The money goes right back to the US treasury 
and treasury securities. In various ways, this helps prop up primarily the 
US and British economies. --Noam Chomsky
%
They also predict that Persian Gulf oil will be increasingly important for 
world energy and industrial systems but that the US won't rely on it. But 
it's got to control it. Controlling the oil resources is more of an issue 
than access. Because control equals power. ---Noam Chomsky
%
If there's protest in a country then there's going to be repression.  Can
they get away with it? - it depends a lot on the reaction.  In the early
50s in the US, there was what was called Macarthyism and the only reason
it succeeded was that there was no resistance to it. When they tried the
same thing in the 60s it instantly collapsed because people simply laughed
at it so they couldn't do it. Even a dictatorship can't do everything it
wants. It's got to have some degree of popular support. And in a more
democratic country, there's a very fragile power system. There's nothing
secret about this, it's history. The question in all of these things is
how much popular resistance there's going to be. 
--Noam Chomsky
%
There was a terrorist act, September 11th, very unusual, a real historic 
event, the first time in history that the west received the kind of attack 
that it carries out routinely in the rest of the world. September 11th did 
change policy undoubtedly, not just for the US, but across the board. Every 
government in the world saw it as an opportunity to intensify their own 
repression and atrocities, from Russia and Chechnya, to the West imposing 
more discipline on their populations. 
--Noam Chomsky
%
