The Modelski Chain Rule:
(1)	Look intently at the problem for several minutes.  Scratch your
	head at 20-30 second intervals.  Try solving the problem on your
	Hewlett-Packard.
(2)	Failing this, look around at the class.  Select a particularly
	bright-looking individual.
(3)	Procure a large chain.
(4)	Walk over to the selected student and threaten to beat him
        severely with the chain unless he gives you the answer to the 
        problem. Generally, he will.  It may also be a good idea to give 
        him a sound thrashing anyway, just to show you mean business.
%
Zall's Laws:
	(1) Any time you get a mouthful of hot soup, the next thing you do
	   will be wrong.
	(2) How long a minute is, depends on which side of the bathroom
	   door you're on.
%
VII. Certain bodies can pass through solid walls painted to resemble
tunnel entrances; others cannot. This trompe l'oeil inconsistency has
baffled generations, but at least it is known that whoever paints an
entrance on a wall's surface to trick an opponent will be unable to pursue
him into this theoretical space. The painter is flattened against the wall
when he attempts to follow into the painting. This is ultimately a problem
of art, not of science. VIII. Any violent rearrangement of feline matter
is impermanent. Cartoon cats possess even more deaths than the traditional
nine lives might comfortably afford. They can be decimated, spliced,
splayed, accordion-pleated, spindled, or disassembled, but they cannot be
destroyed. After a few moments of blinking self pity, they reinflate,
elongate, snap back, or solidify. IX. For every vengeance there is an
equal and opposite revengeance. This is the one law of animated cartoon
motion that also applies to the physical world at large. For that reason,
we need the relief of watching it happen to a duck instead. X. Everything
falls faster than an anvil. Examples too numerous to mention from the
Roadrunner cartoons. -- Esquire, "O'Donnell's Laws of Cartoon Motion",
June 1980

%
